== Implementation of Usage Record Specification

Who:    Michael Parkin

Where:  Barcelona Supercomputing Centre

When:   October 2007

This project contains Java classes to produce an XML document compliant with the Usage Record specification GFD.098 [1]. This project was created using IntelliJ IDEA 7.0.5, so you can use the .ipr, iml etc. files with this IntelliJ if required.

---
=== JAR Dependencies

1. JDOM 1.1 [2]

2. Log4J 1.2.15 [3]

3. JUnit 4.5 [4]

It's possible that earlier versions of these libraries work with these classes but I haven't tested them.

---
=== Usage

These classes should be used as follows:

1. Create an object with the constructor.

2. Set the recordId either automatically using the setRecordId(boolean setCreateTime) method or manually with the setRecordId(String recordId, boolean setCreateTime) method. The setCreateTime flag is used to set the create time of the record when the record id is set.

3. The remaining set/get methods should be used to configure the usage record as required.

4. At any time the usage record can be validated against the GFD.098 schema by calling the validate() method.

5. The Usage Record in XML format can be obtained at any time by calling the toXml() method. If you want a pretty XML output (i.e., with line breaks and indentation) call the toPrettyXML() method.

---
=== To do list:

1. Times. Methods for the following are unimplemented:
   * getCreateTime()
   * setStartTime()
   * getStartTime()
   * setEndTime()
   * getEndTime()
   * getDuration() (i.e., endTime - startTime) 

2. Finish tests

3. toRUS. Want to implement a method that sends the usage record to a RUS given the EPR or URL of the service accepting records for persistant storage

4. For many of the items it's not possible to remove an entry from the UR after is has been added. At the moment I don't see this as a problem, but in the future it may be nice to have

---
=== References
1. http://www.ogf.org/documents/GFD.98.pdf
2. http://www.jdom.org/
3. http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/index.html
4. http://www.junit.org/node/401
